1️⃣ When to fork vs branch
Action	Use case
Fork	You want a completely separate copy of someone else’s repo on your GitHub account. Typically used for contributing to open-source or someone else’s private repo.
Branch	You’re working inside the same repo with your team. You stay connected to the main repo and can push changes directly (or via pull requests).

Since your project is already on GitHub and your team has access, you usually don’t need to fork — you can just create branches. Forks are mostly for:

External contributors

Open-source contributions

2️⃣ How to create a fork (on GitHub)

If you still want to fork:

Go to the repo on GitHub:
https://github.com/Inkbottle011/Boardgames.com

Click Fork (top-right corner)

GitHub creates a copy under your account

Clone your fork locally:

git clone git@github.com:YourUsername/Boardgames.com.git
cd Boardgames.com

Add the original repo as upstream to stay in sync:

git remote add upstream git@github.com:Inkbottle011/Boardgames.com.git

Pull changes from upstream when needed:

git fetch upstream
git merge upstream/main
3️⃣ When working with a team in Herd project

Since your teammates have access to the main repo, the simpler workflow is:

git checkout -b feature/your-feature  # create a branch

Work on your branch

Push to origin:

git push -u origin feature/your-feature

Make a pull request on GitHub → merge into main

This avoids creating unnecessary forks and keeps the history clean.

💡 Summary:

Team project → use branches, not forks

External contributor → fork, then PR

If you want, I can draw a diagram showing fork vs branch workflow for your Herd project so it’s crystal clear which to use.

Do you want me to do that?

how should i make branches

Perfect — making branches in Git is super important for team projects! Here’s the step-by-step guide for your Herd Laravel project:

1️⃣ Start in your project root

Open your terminal (VS Code or Git Bash) inside your project folder:

cd C:/Users/gaura/Herd/boardgames.com

Check you’re on the main branch:

git status

You should see:

On branch main
nothing to commit, working tree clean
2️⃣ Pull latest changes from main

Always make sure your local main is up-to-date:

git pull origin main

This prevents conflicts when creating a new branch.

3️⃣ Create a new branch

Decide a name that reflects the work you’ll do. Example: adding authentication:

git checkout -b feature/authentication

feature/ is a common convention for new features

bugfix/ is often used for fixing bugs

This command creates and switches to the new branch immediately

Check your branch:

git branch

The * shows the current branch

Example output:

  main
* feature/authentication
4️⃣ Work on your branch

Make changes in VS Code

Stage and commit your changes:

git add .
git commit -m "Add login and registration pages"
5️⃣ Push the branch to GitHub
git push -u origin feature/authentication

The -u sets the branch to track the remote branch

Now your branch appears on GitHub

6️⃣ Create a Pull Request (PR)

Go to your repo on GitHub

GitHub usually shows: “Your recently pushed branch” → click Compare & Pull Request

Fill in a title and description → assign reviewers if needed

Merge into main after approval

7️⃣ Switch back to main

After your branch is merged:

git checkout main
git pull origin main

Now your main is up-to-date

You can start the next branch for a new feature
